docs/PUBLISHING.md, before:

Publishing Etcher
=================

This is a small guide to package and publish Etcher to all supported operating
systems.

Signing
-------

### OS X

1. Get our Apple Developer ID certificate for signing applications distributed
outside the Mac App Store from the resin.io Apple account.

2. Install the Developer ID certificate to your Mac's Keychain by double
clicking on the certificate file.

The application will be signed automatically using this certificate when
packaging for OS X.

### Windows

1. Get access to our code signing certificate and decryption key as a resin.io
employee by asking for it from the relevant people.

2. Place the certificate in the root of the Etcher repository naming it
`certificate.p12`.

Packaging
---------


### OS X

Run the following command:

```sh
make electron-installer-dmg
make electron-installer-app-zip
```

The resulting installers will be saved to `release/out`.

### GNU/Linux

Run the following command:

```sh
make electron-installer-appimage
make electron-installer-debian
```

The resulting installers will be saved to `release/out`.

### Windows

Run the following command:

```sh
make electron-installer-zip
make electron-installer-nsis
```

The resulting installers will be saved to `etcher-release/installers`.

Publishing to Bintray
---------------------

We publish GNU/Linux Debian packages to [Bintray][bintray].

Make sure you set the following environment variables:

- `BINTRAY_USER`
- `BINTRAY_API_KEY`

Run the following command:

```sh
make publish-bintray-debian RELEASE_TYPE=<production|snapshot>
```

Publishing to S3
----------------

- [AWS CLI][aws-cli]

Make sure you have the [AWS CLI tool][aws-cli] installed and configured to
access resin.io's production or snapshot S3 bucket.

Run the following command to publish all files for the current combination of
_platform_ and _arch_ (building them if necessary):

```sh
make publish-aws-s3 RELEASE_TYPE=<production|snapshot>
```

Also add links to each AWS S3 file in [GitHub Releases][github-releases]. See
[`v1.0.0-beta.17`](https://github.com/resin-io/etcher/releases/tag/v1.0.0-beta.17)
as an example.

Publishing to Homebrew Cask
---------------------------

1. Update [`Casks/etcher.rb`][etcher-cask-file] with the new version and
   `sha256`

2. Send a PR with the changes above to
   [`caskroom/homebrew-cask`][homebrew-cask]

Announcing
----------

Post messages to the [Etcher forum][resin-forum-etcher] and
[Etcher gitter channel][gitter-etcher] announcing the new version
of Etcher, and including the relevant section of the Changelog.

[aws-cli]: https://aws.amazon.com/cli
[bintray]: https://bintray.com
[etcher-cask-file]: https://github.com/caskroom/homebrew-cask/blob/master/Casks/etcher.rb
[homebrew-cask]: https://github.com/caskroom/homebrew-cask
[resin-forum-etcher]: https://talk.resin.io/c/etcher/annoucements
[gitter-etcher]: https://gitter.im/resin-io/etcher
[github-releases]: https://github.com/resin-io/etcher/releases

Commit message:

refactor(GUI): integrate `etcher-latest-version` into the main repo
`etcher-latest-version` was kept in a separate repository in order to
re-use it with the Etcher website, however the Etcher website is not
using it at all, and we're moving towards having the website in the main
repository.

Therefore, this commit brings back the logic from
`etcher-latest-version`, but introduces it as
`lib/shared/s3-packages.js`, in order to not tie ourselves to the
AngularJS framework, and as a step towards the Etcher SDK.

As a nice little bonus, this commit adds support for an
`ETCHER_FAKE_S3_LATEST_VERSION` environment variable that can be used to
trick Etcher that there is an available update, and therefore show the
update notifier modal.

Also, this commit adds support for snapshot builds update-checks, by
checking the `resin-nightly-downloads` S3 bucket if the current version
contains a git commit hash build number.

If the version is not a production release, then the update notifier
modal doesn't present the checkbox to disable update notifications for X
days.

See: https://github.com/resin-io-modules/etcher-latest-version
Fixes: https://github.com/resin-io/etcher/issues/953
Signed-off-by: Juan Cruz Viotti <jviotti@openmailbox.org>

docs/PUBLISHING.md, after:

Publishing Etcher
=================

This is a small guide to package and publish Etcher to all supported operating
systems.

Release Types
-------------

Etcher supports **production** and **snapshot** releases. Each is published to
a different S3 bucket, and production releases are code signed, while snapshot
releases aren't and include a short git commit-hash as a build number. For
example, `1.0.0-beta.19` is a production release, while `1.0.0-beta.19+531ab82`
is a snapshot release.

In terms of comparison: `1.0.0-beta.19` (production) < `1.0.0-beta.19+531ab82`
(snapshot) < `1.0.0` (production) < `1.0.0+2201e5f` (snapshot).

The build system creates snapshot releases by default, but you can build a
specific release type by setting the `RELEASE_TYPE` environment variable. For
example:

```sh
RELEASE_TYPE=snapshot
RELEASE_TYPE=production
```

Signing
-------

### OS X

1. Get our Apple Developer ID certificate for signing applications distributed
outside the Mac App Store from the resin.io Apple account.

2. Install the Developer ID certificate to your Mac's Keychain by double
clicking on the certificate file.

The application will be signed automatically using this certificate when
packaging for OS X.

### Windows

1. Get access to our code signing certificate and decryption key as a resin.io
employee by asking for it from the relevant people.

2. Place the certificate in the root of the Etcher repository naming it
`certificate.p12`.

Packaging
---------

The resulting installers will be saved to `release/out`.

Run the following commands:

### OS X

```sh
make electron-installer-dmg
make electron-installer-app-zip
```

### GNU/Linux

```sh
make electron-installer-appimage
make electron-installer-debian
```

### Windows

```sh
make electron-installer-zip
make electron-installer-nsis
```

Publishing to Bintray
---------------------

We publish GNU/Linux Debian packages to [Bintray][bintray].

Make sure you set the following environment variables:

- `BINTRAY_USER`
- `BINTRAY_API_KEY`

Run the following command:

```sh
make publish-bintray-debian
```

Publishing to S3
----------------

- [AWS CLI][aws-cli]

Make sure you have the [AWS CLI tool][aws-cli] installed and configured to
access resin.io's production or snapshot S3 bucket.

Run the following command to publish all files for the current combination of
_platform_ and _arch_ (building them if necessary):

```sh
make publish-aws-s3
```

Also add links to each AWS S3 file in [GitHub Releases][github-releases]. See
[`v1.0.0-beta.17`](https://github.com/resin-io/etcher/releases/tag/v1.0.0-beta.17)
as an example.

Publishing to Homebrew Cask
---------------------------

1. Update [`Casks/etcher.rb`][etcher-cask-file] with the new version and
   `sha256`

2. Send a PR with the changes above to
   [`caskroom/homebrew-cask`][homebrew-cask]

Announcing
----------

Post messages to the [Etcher forum][resin-forum-etcher] and
[Etcher gitter channel][gitter-etcher] announcing the new version
of Etcher, and including the relevant section of the Changelog.

[aws-cli]: https://aws.amazon.com/cli
[bintray]: https://bintray.com
[etcher-cask-file]: https://github.com/caskroom/homebrew-cask/blob/master/Casks/etcher.rb
[homebrew-cask]: https://github.com/caskroom/homebrew-cask
[resin-forum-etcher]: https://talk.resin.io/c/etcher/annoucements
[gitter-etcher]: https://gitter.im/resin-io/etcher
[github-releases]: https://github.com/resin-io/etcher/releases
